hello and welcome to videojug we're
going to show you how to make fish and
chips with English beer batter
traditionally British fare especially
during World War two when fish was one
of the few foods not rationed it is also
a popular favorite around the world this
recipe makes an extra crispy tasty
batter that will melt in your mouth step
1 you will need the following
ingredients to serve to people to fish
Phillips cod haddock or other white fish
1.5 liters of vegetable oil or ground
nut oil 140 grams of flour 50 grams of
cornstarch 1 teaspoon of baking powder 1
egg 250 millilitres of beer 1 teaspoon
of salt salt and pepper and some french
fries to garnish here is a handy list of
the ingredients
you will also need the following
utensils one saucepan two bowls one
whisk a slotted spoon one large fork a
tray and finally some kitchen towels
step 2 preheat the oil begin by pouring
all the oil into a large pan
and turn to a medium-high heat
then let it heat until it becomes hot
enough to fry but it must not be smoking
hot step 3 make the batter now into a
bowl add the flour the cornstarch
the salt
and finally the baking powder mix them
together until evenly combined and set
aside step 4
mix the egg and beer
next pour the beer into a bowl
add the egg
and whisk it together well until the egg
and beer are evenly combined step 5
complete the batter transfer the beer
mixture into the bowl containing the
flour mixture
and whisk well for a couple of minutes
to ensure that it combines smoothly and
is lump-free
then set it aside step 6
prepare the fish take the fill 'its and
pat them dry using a piece of paper
towel
this will help them fry better as any
excess water will only make the fish
less crispy
next run your fingers along the surface
to ensure there are no small bones
remaining this is especially important
if you are cooking for little children
step seven batter and fry before cooking
the fish it's wise to check that the oil
is at the correct temperature to fry
test it by dropping some of the batter
into the oil if it fries immediately
without burning it's at the correct
temperature then with your large fork
dip one of the Philips into the bowl of
batter and coat it completely carefully
place them into the hot oil taking
special care not to burn yourself in the
process only fry one fill it at a time
so as not to overcrowd the pan this will
cause the temperature of the oil to drop
making the batter less crispy and it can
also make the Philips stick together in
a lump
step 8 turn the fish let the fill it fry
roughly four to seven minutes depending
on its size and flip it at least once
during this time to ensure that it's
cooking evenly
when the batter becomes a light golden
brown remove it from the pan
and transfer it to a tray lined with
paper repeat exactly the same frying
process with the remaining Filat tip
place the fish on a rack if you have one
as this will keep the batter crispier
step 9 serve your fish and beer batter
is now ready to serve traditionally it
goes well with chips or french fries
this recipe can be found here on the
videojug website
season with salt and pepper and serve
immediately
and that's how to make fish and chips
with English beer batter the videojug
way
you